SPAN 10100-10200-10300. Beginning Elementary Spanish I-II-III.
This three-quarter sequence is intended for beginning and beginning/intermediate students in Spanish. It provides students with a solid foundation in the basic patterns of spoken and written Spanish (e.g., grammar, vocabulary, sociocultural norms) to develop their speaking, listening, writing, and reading skills to the level required to demonstrate competency on the Spanish examination. Although the three classes constitute a sequence leading to the Spanish competency examination, there is enough review and recycling at every level for students to enter the sequence whenever it is appropriate for them.
SPAN 10100. Beginning Elementary Spanish I. 100 Units.
This course is intended for students who have no previous knowledge of Spanish, and for those who need an in-depth review of the basic patterns of the language.
Terms Offered: Summer, Autumn, Winter
Note(s): Must be taken for a quality grade.
SPAN 10200. Beginning Elementary Spanish II. 100 Units.
This course offers a rapid review of the basic patterns of the language and expands on the material presented in SPAN 10100.
Terms Offered: Summer, Autumn, Winter, Spring
Prerequisite(s): SPAN 10100 or placement
Note(s): Must be taken for a quality grade.
SPAN 10300. Beginning Elementary Spanish III. 100 Units.
This course expands on the material presented in SPAN 10200, reviewing and elaborating the basic patterns of the language as needed to prepare students for the Spanish competency examination.
Terms Offered: Summer, Autumn, Winter, Spring
Prerequisite(s): SPAN 10200 or placement
Note(s): Must be taken for a quality grade.
SPAN 20100-20200-20300. Language, History, and Culture I-II-III.
In this intermediate-level sequence, students review but most of all extend their knowledge of all basic patterns (e.g., grammar, vocabulary, sociocultural norms) of the language. They develop their oral and written skills in describing, narrating, and presenting arguments. They are exposed to texts and audio-visual materials that provide them with a deeper understanding of the Spanish-speaking world.
SPAN 20100. Language, History, and Culture I. 100 Units.
This course is a general extension of all basic patterns of the language for intermediate students. Students explore the diversity of the Spanish-speaking world through a variety of texts and audio-visual materials.
Terms Offered: Autumn, Winter, Spring
Prerequisite(s): SPAN 10300 or placement
Note(s): Must be taken for a quality grade.
SPAN 20200. Language, History, and Culture II. 100 Units.
This course focuses on both objective and subjective description of people, places, and life processes. A variety of written, oral, listening, and reading activities allow students to explore different genres while reviewing grammatical and lexical items pertaining to each individual theme in context. Cultural awareness is enhanced through exposure to an array of target-language media, as well as through in-class discussion.
Terms Offered: Autumn, Winter, Spring
Prerequisite(s): SPAN 20100 or placement
Note(s): Must be taken for a quality grade.
SPAN 20300. Language, History, and Culture III. 100 Units.
This course develops the use of persuasive and argumentative language. Our focus is on analyzing and debating current issues pertaining to the Spanish-speaking world, and articulating sound personal perspectives on these issues. A variety of written, oral, listening, and reading activities allow students to explore an ample selection of topics, while reviewing grammatical and lexical items pertaining to each individual theme in context. Cultural awareness is enhanced through exposure to an array of target-language media as well as through in-class oral presentations and discussions.
Terms Offered: Autumn, Winter, Spring
Prerequisite(s): SPAN 20200 or placement
Note(s): Must be taken for a quality grade.
SPAN 20400-20500. Composición y conversación avanzada I-II.
Third-year language sequence
SPAN 20400. Composición y conversación avanzada I. 100 Units.
This course, the first segment of two in the third-year language sequence, focuses on the development of advanced writing skills and oral proficiency in Spanish through the study of a wide variety of contemporary journalistic texts and unscripted recordings.  Students will review problematic grammatical structures, write a number of essays, and participate in multiple class debates, using the authentic readings and listening segments as linguistic models on which to base their own production.
Terms Offered: Autumn, Winter
Prerequisite(s): SPAN 20300 or consent of instructor
Note(s): Must be taken for a quality grade.
SPAN 20500. Composición y conversación avanzada II. 100 Units.
This course, the second segment of two in the third-year language sequence, continues the development of advanced writing skills and oral proficiency in Spanish through the study of a wide variety of contemporary journalistic texts and unscripted recordings. Students will review problematic grammatical structures, write a number of essays, and participate in multiple class debates, using the authentic readings and listening segments as linguistic models on which to base their own production.
Terms Offered: Winter
Prerequisite(s): SPAN 20400 or consent of instructor
Note(s): Must be taken for a quality grade.
SPAN 20402. Curso de redacción académica para hablantes nativos. 100 Units.
This advanced language course helps students achieve mastery of composition and style through the acquisition of numerous writing techniques. A wide variety of literary, historiographic, and sociological texts are read. Through writing a number of essays and participating in class debates, students are guided in the examination of linguistic structures and organization of several types of written Spanish discourse. This course also enhances awareness of the cultural diversity within the contemporary Spanish-speaking world and its historical roots.
Terms Offered: Autumn
Prerequisite(s): Open only to native and heritage speakers with consent of instructor
Note(s): Must be taken for a quality grade.
SPAN 20602. Discurso académico para hablantes nativos. 100 Units.
This seminar/practicum focuses on developing vocabulary and discourse styles for academic verbal communication. This goal is achieved through exposure to taped formal and informal interviews and public debate in the media. Most important, however, is active class participation. Through a number of class presentations, students put into practice a variety of discourse styles (e.g., debates, lectures, seminars, interviews). We also read numerous Spanish newspapers.
Terms Offered: Spring
Prerequisite(s): Open only to native speakers
Note(s): Must be taken for a quality grade
Literature and Culture
All literature and culture classes are conducted in Spanish unless otherwise indicated. Students who are majoring in Spanish do all work in Spanish. With prior consent of instructor, nonmajors may write in English.
SPAN 21100. Las regiones del español. 100 Units.
This sociolinguistic course expands understanding of the historical development of Spanish and awareness of the great sociocultural diversity within the Spanish-speaking world and its impact on the Spanish language. We emphasize the interrelationship between language and culture as well as ethno-historical transformations within the different regions of the Hispanic world. Special consideration is given to identifying lexical variations and regional expressions exemplifying diverse sociocultural aspects of the Spanish language, and to recognizing phonological differences between dialects. We also examine the impact of indigenous cultures on dialectical aspects. The course includes literary and nonliterary texts, audio-visual materials, and visits by native speakers of a variety of Spanish-speaking regions.
Terms Offered: Winter, Spring
Prerequisite(s): SPAN 20300 or consent of instructor
Note(s): Must be taken for a quality grade.
Equivalent Course(s): LACS 21100
SPAN 21500. Introducción al análisis literario. 100 Units.
Through a variety of representative works of Hispanic literature, this course focuses on the discussion and practical application of different approaches to the critical reading of literary texts. We also study basic concepts and problems of literary theory, as well as strategies for research and academic writing in Spanish.
Instructor(s): M. Santana     Terms Offered: Spring
Prerequisite(s): SPAN 20300 or consent of instructor
Note(s): Classes conducted in Spanish. 
SPAN 21703. Introducción a las literaturas hispánicas: textos españoles clásicos. 100 Units.
This course involves careful reading and discussion of significant works from the Spanish Middle Ages, Renaissance, and the Golden Age, including Juan Manuel's Conde Lucanor, Jorge Manrique's Coplas, the anonymous Lazarillo de Tormes, and the theater of Calderón.
Instructor(s): F. de Armas     Terms Offered: Autumn
Prerequisite(s): SPAN 20300 or consent of instructor
SPAN 21803. Introducción a las literaturas hispánicas: textos españoles contemporáneos. 100 Units.
This course is a close reading and discussion of selected texts from the nineteenth century to the present. Authors may include Larra, Espronceda, Zorrillal, Becquer, Pardo Bazan, Galdos, Unamuno, Valle-Inclan, Machado, Lorca, Cela, Laforet, and Matute.
Instructor(s): M. Martínez     Terms Offered: Spring
Prerequisite(s): SPAN 20300 or consent of instructor
SPAN 21903. Introducción a las literaturas hispánicas: textos hispanoamericanos desde la colonia a la independencia. 100 Units.
This course examines an array of representative texts written in Spanish America from the colonial period to the late nineteenth century, underscoring not only their aesthetic qualities but also the historical conditions that made their production possible. Among authors studied are Christopher Columbus, Hernán Cortés, Sor Juana Inés de la Cruz, Simón Bolívar, and José Martí.
Instructor(s): A. Lugo-Ortiz     Terms Offered: Winter
Prerequisite(s): SPAN 20300 or consent of instructor
Equivalent Course(s): CRES 21903,LACS 21903
SPAN 22003. Introducción a las literaturas hispánicas: del Modernismo al presente. 100 Units.
Students in this course study an array of texts written in Spanish America from the late nineteenth century to the present, including the literature of the Hispanic diasporas. Authors may include José Martí, Rubén Darío, Mariano Azuela, Pablo Neruda, César Vallejo, Teresa de la Parra, Jorge Luis Borges, Octavio Paz, Rosario Castellanos, Mario Vargas Llosa, and Pedro Pietri.
Instructor(s): L. Gandolfi     Terms Offered: Autumn
Prerequisite(s): SPAN 20300 or consent of instructor
Equivalent Course(s): LACS 22003
SPAN 22310. Literature and Ideas in the Spanish-Speaking Caribbean: The Nineteenth Century. 100 Units.
In this course we will study some of the main intellectual currents in the Spanish-speaking Caribbean during the nineteenth century and their relationships to the literary production of the period. In particular, we will address the reformulation of ideas of the Enlightenment, liberalism, and philosophical Positivism, both for political reflections upon slavery, colonialism, and projects of national independence and social reform as well as for literary aesthetics. How did predicaments of the Enlightenment come to structure pro-slavery thought? What was the relationship between liberalism and abolitionism? How did philosophical principles related to the development of the natural sciences support or undermine projects of national independence and/or of social emancipation (such as women's and labor rights)? And what did literature have to do with these issues? Among the authors we may study are Francisco de Arango y Parreño, Félix Varela, José Antonio Saco, Gertrudis Gómez de Avellaneda, Condesa de Merlín, Eugenio María de Hostos, Enrique José Varona, José de Jesús Galván, José Martí, and Luisa Capetillo.
Instructor(s): A. Lugo-Ortiz     Terms Offered: Winter
Note(s): Taught in Spanish, with an additional weekly discussion session for graduate students. 
Equivalent Course(s): SPAN 32310
SPAN 22314. Poesía Novohispana con práctica ecdótica. 100 Units.
The study of poetry written in New Spain, working with manuscripts as well as with "editiones principes."
Instructor(s): M. L. Tenorio     Terms Offered: Autumn
Note(s): Taught in Spanish.
Equivalent Course(s): SPAN 32314
SPAN 22315. Contemporary Catalan and European Theater. 100 Units.
Una aproximació a la dramatúrgia textual europea, espanyola i catalana dels segles XX i XXI, i, en particular, dels últims trenta anys.
Instructor(s): S. Belbel     Terms Offered: Spring
Equivalent Course(s): CATA 32315,SPAN 33315,CATA 22315
SPAN 23900. El retorno de Astrea: astrología, mito e imperio en el teatro aurisecular. 100 Units.
In classical mythology, Astraea, the goddess of justice, chastity, and truth, was the last of the immortals to leave earth with the decline of the ages. Her return was to signal the dawn of a new Golden Age. During the Spanish seventeenth century, her myth was utilized by a number of playwrights, but particularly by Calderón de la Barca to delve into a series of questions. As an astral myth, it allowed poets to delve into astrological matters at a time when this art still enjoyed much popularity. The course will analyze the presence of planets and zodiacal signs, of miraculous stars and horoscopes to discuss the topical uses of astrology and the limits of its orthodoxy. While Aratus discussed the astronomical implications of the myth in ancient times, Virgil transformed it into an imperial myth, proclaiming that she would return to Rome without the need for ekpyrosis. Thus, Philip IV appropriated the myth in Spain to proclaim the renovation that was to take place during his reign. Playwrights would thus praise Philip through this myth. It also has been argued that Astraea also served to point to the regime’s failures. The course will then study the political implications of the myth. Among the plays by Calderón that will be included are: La gran Cenobia, La vida es sueño, El mayor encanto amor, Los tres mayores prodigios, and El monstruo de los jardines.
Instructor(s): F. de Armas     Terms Offered: Spring
Prerequisite(s): SPAN 21703 and SPAN 21500
Note(s): Taught in Spanish.
Equivalent Course(s): SPAN 33900
SPAN 24220. A Hero and A Fool: Don Quixote and Its Impact on Art and Literature. 100 Units.
The course will study the most popular novel of Early Modern times, its heroic origins, its comedy, and its humanist message.  The adventures of Don Quixote on the dusty roads of La Mancha challenge the actual world in the name of a dream and mix the highest ideals with the humblest reality.  We will see how Cervantes’s novel dialogues with the narratives of its period and later play a major role in English, French, Russian, and Spanish fiction.  We will also examine and appreciate the silent omnipresence of Italian Renaissance art in this novel.
Instructor(s): F. de Armas and T. Pavel     Terms Offered: Spring
Note(s): Fulfills the core course requirement for Comparative Literature students.
Equivalent Course(s): SPAN 34220,RLLT 34220,REMS 34220,FNDL 21211,CMLT 24220,CMLT 34220
SPAN 24801. Literatura y crimen. 100 Units.
The production of crime fiction in the Hispanic literary world has a long tradition that dates back to the mid-nineteenth century and has recently gained critical attention as postmodern literary theories focus on fictional forms that are both popular and self-conscious. This course studies the historical development of the genre in Hispanic letters, as well as its formal and ideological foundations. Authors likely to be discussed include Emilia Pardo Bazán, Jorge Luis Borges, Maria Antònia Oliver, Manuel Vázquez Montalbán, Luisa Valenzuela, Mario Vargas Llosa, Marina Mayoral, Gabriel García Márquez, and Ricardo Piglia.
Instructor(s): M. Santana     Terms Offered: Winter
Prerequisite(s): Span 20300 or Consent of Instructor
Equivalent Course(s): SPAN 34800
SPAN 26410. La imaginación mediterránea del Siglo de Oro. 100 Units.
In this course we will explore the place of the Mediterranean as a space of cultural contact, conflict, and exchange in the Spanish literary imagination. The ‘Middle Sea’ was not only the geographical framework for a large corpus of Iberian narratives, poems, and plays of the early modern period, but also a discursive space where many political, religious, and cultural ideas of the period were staged and disputed. We will read portions of sixteenth-century Spanish translations of the Odyssey and the Aeneid, travel writing such as the Viaje de Turquía, captivity narratives by Miguel de Cervantes and Diego Galán, short stories by María de Zayas and Lope de Vega, and poems by Garcilaso de la Vega, Fernando de Herrera, and morisco authors.
Instructor(s): M. Martínez     Terms Offered: Winter
Note(s): Taught in Spanish. 
Equivalent Course(s): SPAN 36410
SPAN 27513. Barcelona Imagined. 100 Units.
This course will explore literary representations of the urban space of Barcelona in twentieth and twenty-first century narrative. In addition to the presence and movement of fictional characters within and beyond the city, we will examine the role of the city in autobiographical essays and personal writings of the authors studied. Theoretical perspectives (de Certeau, Lefebvre, Bruno, Grosz) will also be employed in light of the intersections of identity politics and urban space in the studied literary texts. Topics to be examined and debated include space and memory, marginality, urban planning and architecture, public and domestic space, linguistic identity, gaze, gender and sexuality, flânerie, homelessness, and dystopia. Authors studied may include Mercè Rodoreda, Montserrat Roig, Eduardo Mendoza, Carmen Laforet, Esther Tusquets, and Juan Marsé.
Instructor(s): M. McCarron     Terms Offered: Spring
Equivalent Course(s): CATA 37513,SPAN 37513,CATA 27513
SPAN 29700. Readings in Special Topics. 100 Units.
This course involves directed readings on special topics not covered by courses offered as part of the program in Spanish. Subjects treated and work to be completed for the course must be chosen in consultation with the instructor no later than the end of the preceding quarter.
Terms Offered: Autumn, Winter, Spring
Prerequisite(s): SPAN 10300 or 20300, depending on the requirements of the program for which credit is sought
Note(s): Students are required to submit the College Reading and Research Course Form. 
SPAN 29900. BA Paper Preparation: Spanish. 100 Units.
In consultation with a faculty member, students must devote the equivalent of a one-quarter course to the preparation of a BA project. Students are required to submit the College Reading and Research Course Form.
Terms Offered: Winter
Prerequisite(s): Consent of undergraduate adviser
Note(s): Must be taken for a quality grade. 